.TH DELIVER 1 "July 2026" "deliver 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
deliver \- deterministic deliverable validator for agent workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deliver
[\fB--spec\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--json\fR \fIJSON\fR]
[\fB--file\fR \fIPATTERN\fR...]
[\fB--base\fR \fIDIR\fR]
[\fB--format\fR \fItext|json\fR]
[\fB--color\fR \fIauto|always|never\fR]
[\fB--progress\fR \fIauto|always|never\fR]
[\fB--strict\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B deliver
validates concrete task outputs from a TOML or JSON spec. It can check file
existence, size limits, required and forbidden regexes, command exit status,
stdout and stderr content, and Git cleanliness.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -s, --spec \fIPATH\fR
Read a TOML or JSON validation spec from \fIPATH\fR.
.TP
.B --json \fIJSON\fR
Read a JSON validation spec from the command line. This overrides
\fB--spec\fR.
.TP
.B --file \fIPATTERN\fR...
Run quick required-file checks. Simple \fB*\fR and \fB?\fR glob patterns are
expanded recursively below \fB--base\fR.
.TP
.B -b, --base \fIDIR\fR
Resolve relative file paths and command working directories from \fIDIR\fR.
Defaults to the current directory.
.TP
.B -f, --format \fItext|json\fR
Select text or JSON report output. Text is for people; JSON is for tools.
.TP
.B --color \fIauto|always|never\fR
Control ANSI color in text output. The default, \fBauto\fR, enables color only
when stdout is a terminal.
.TP
.B --progress \fIauto|always|never\fR
Control the stderr progress spinner. The default, \fBauto\fR, shows progress
for interactive text runs.
.TP
.B --strict
Exit with status 1 when any validation check fails.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Validation completed. Checks may have failed unless \fB--strict\fR was used.
.TP
.B 1
At least one validation check failed and \fB--strict\fR was set.
.TP
.B 2
The command could not read or parse its inputs, or no checks were provided.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B deliver --spec deliver.toml --strict
Run the project validation spec and fail the process on any failed check.
.TP
.B deliver --file README.md src/*.rs --color always
Check files directly and force colored text output.
.TP
.B deliver --spec deliver.toml --format json
Emit a stable JSON report for another tool.
